This file is automatically generated from readme.txinfo.  Do not edit.

Introduction
************

   Sd is a square dance caller's helper.  The program assists in
writing sequences for Western square dancing by doing the checker
pushing.  You tell the program what call you want to call next, and it
computes the resulting setup and shows it to you.

   There are several user interfaces available with Sd.  The standard is
an X Window System interface.  Also included is a terminal-based user
interface featuring a completing reader.  Support for Apollo's Domain
Dialog is available from the authors, but is not part of the
distribution.

Documentation
=============

   The file `INSTALL' contains instructions for building and installing
Sd.

   The file `sd_doc.txinfo' documents using Sd.  The file `db_doc.txt'
gives internal information on the database format, useful only to
people editing the calls database.

   See the file `Relnotes' for information about what is new in this
release.

   Printed copies of the manual are available from the authors.

Getting Sd
==========

   Sd is available via anonymous FTP from the file
`contrib/c4/sd/sd-nn.tar.Z' (where `nn' changes with the version) on
host export.lcs.mit.edu.  FTP is the Internet file transfer protocol.

   If your mailer can interpret MIME messages, we can also send you Sd
by email.  MIME is a draft Internet standard for structured mail.  It
includes support for mailing large binary files, such as a tar file of
Sd.

How to Contact the Authors
==========================

   The Internet mailing list `sd@expo.lcs.mit.edu' is for discussion of
Sd and announcements of new versions.  Send to
`sd-request@expo.lcs.mit.edu' to be added.

   Please send bug reports and other comments on Sd to the authors at
the addresses given below.  Be sure to include the version number.

     William Ackerman
     wba@apollo.hp.com
     
     Stephen Gildea
     gildea@lcs.mit.edu

   If you do not have access to electronic mail, write to

     Bill Ackerman
     5 Parlmont Park Apt 100
     North Billerica MA 01862-2722

